Today is 7th June 2025.
Here is a short introduction to life science degree (BSc Neuroscience) at Glasgow.

Our flexible Life Sciences degrees challenge you to apply the theory of the classroom in practical situations, in the lab or in the field. We offer an extremely wide range of courses in human and animal biology, biomolecular sciences, infection and immunity. 

Our aim is to offer internationally competitive degrees that meet the needs of today’s science graduates. To achieve this aim, we utilise the research and teaching strengths of the College of Medical, Veterinary & Life Sciences to provide our graduates with the skills necessary for success in any chosen career.

We have a large and diverse student body, which includes Scottish, UK, EU and international students. We regularly welcome visiting and exchange students, and we believe in the many advantages our students gain from adding an international dimension to their studies.

Our strengths include:

substantial flexibility within our range of degree programmes
an opportunity for you to gain experience working or studying abroad
annual field courses to destinations around the globe
access to the University’s world-renowned museums of Anatomy and Zoology
top-quality student experience.
Our museums
The University’s Hunterian Museum is home to over a million magnificent items, ranging from meteorites to mummies and Mackintosh. The Zoology and Anatomy museums are a fantastic resource for Life Sciences students.

Zoology Museum
With almost two million animal species described so far: and many more to discover; we can only hope to give our visitors a taste of the range of animal variety. Perhaps unexpectedly, the museum also maintains displays of live animals: a small selection of snakes, lizards, frogs and invertebrates is on show.

Anatomy Museum
William Hunter’s remarkable specimens show all aspects of human form and function and reflect his lifelong career as a pioneering anatomist and obstetrician. Largely used for teaching and research, the collections have considerable importance in the history and development of medicine.

The University of Glasgow has a long and outstanding record in Animal Biology.


Programme structure
Year 1
You will be given a general introduction to all aspects of modern biology and encouraged to acquire general scientific skills.

Year 2
In semester 1, you will develop your knowledge of fundamental aspects of biology. In semester 2, you will be introduced to specialist subject areas according to your interests (eg animal biology; biomolecular sciences; human biology; infection biology).

You can also study other subjects in years 1 and 2: see Flexible degrees.

Years 3 and 4
If you progress to Honours (years 3 and 4) you will take specialized Neuroscience courses that will delve into the anatomy and function of the nervous system from development to ageing, and from the molecular level to the systems level. Teaching is by traditional lectures as well as practical lab experience, discussions and group activities.

In year 4 you will enrol on a core course andhave the opportunity to choose three neuroscience-related Honours options focusing on a range of topics that cover the most up to date Neuroscience research. You will also complete a research project with the opportunity of gaining lab experience.

You will gain experience of practical techniques including experimental design, ways of gathering data and statistical analysis of data, and develop skills in collecting and presenting information.

You can take Neuroscience as an MSci, which includes an additional placement year, between the third and final years of the degree. This is normally spent doing research in industry or a research institute in the UK or overseas.

The available final-year optional courses may change each year and students are not guaranteed a place on a particular final-year option.